James loves ergonomic keyboards but he
doesn't understand why I've spent
hundreds Okay thousands on mechanical
keyboards switches key caps and other
accessories so when eom maker sponsored
this video I wanted to get his opinion
on two of the more standard sizes and
layouts eom Maker's tide 65 and Tide 75
mechanical keyboards I'm going to start
with the eom maker tide 65 I come in now
later James later later uh this is a 65%
board triple mode aluminum gasket
mounted mechanical keyboard we've got a
pretty standard quick start guide it's
actually pretty sweet folds
out into a giant quick start map yes
these are qmk via compatible I know that
that is not only my biggest complaint
with evil maker but one of your biggest
complaints is that it's proprietary
software well that's finally over oh
this one is actually a barebones kit so
what I really want to look at before
James gets over here is the 75 another
quick start guide and then this nice
purple with side printed Legend also
aluminum chassis very nice we got our
typical cable USBC to usba a then we've
also got my favorite kind of key cap and
switch puller the double-sided guy
really easy to use with these thin wires
and when you need switches you just grab
them and pop them out super simple super
easy James is going to come in and check
out the unfinished keyboard so that we
can kind of explain what's inside of
this thing and why I actually care about
the multitude of layers within this
keyboard okay here's the thing plof it's
not that I I don't understand why to
spend money on a great mechanical
keyboard I get it the weight oh God the
colors the the clickiness the the feel
the sounds I get it I like it I want it
what I don't understand cuz I don't have
any experience with it is like you said
the gasket mounting and the O-rings and
the luing liven that's what I just don't
have experience with I appreciate it but
I just never have done that myself
today's the day today is the day well
kind of we're going to at least open it
and look through it the tide keyboards
only come preassembled but I've taken
this one apart so you can look at it
it's actually really simple you've just
got two pieces of the case you got the
top and the bottom and then what we've
got is all of these layers so this is
our top plate so Flexi Cut means that
there's little Cuts in the plate and
that allows for more flexibility why
would you want that I thought the whole
thing with keyboards is rigidity kind of
the whole thing about keyboards
realistically is customizability and
making it feel the way you want it to
feel and sound and so some people like
all of that give I personally don't I
like a more rigid plate and then as for
gaskets what we've got here are these
little socks what these do is they help
keep it in place and they help add a
little bit of cushion okay so you're
saying with the socks on there's less
play with it moving like in these
directions but there's more give in it
moving in this up and down Direction up
and down yeah because it's got that
little bit of rubber that'll help kind
of sink in when it moves so that's
gasket mounted yeah that's gasket
mounted I always thought it had to do
with the switches no no no no no it's on
the plate so now we've got just our PCB
right except it's not just the PCB there
are five layers of sound dampening
materials oh my gosh okay so this is
case foam this as you can see has some
more vertical height and so the switches
are going to sink down right onto that
is this sound damping material because
although there's a whole range of
different like keyboard sounds is there
is the like consensus that you don't
want an echoey kind of Reverb sound it's
personal preference so I mean yeah
Reverb and Echo is is not as desired
what you want is just a solid um Range
coming between like a clack or click
down to like a creamy th mhm what is
something that nobody ever wants like a
ringing ping like spring ping yeah and
that's why people Lube their Springs so
that's a big one and yeah echo or Reverb
probably the main things and that's what
all this foam kind of helps with so now
we just shuffle them all together except
for the top plate and put the switches
on pretty much yeah let's say we're
assembling from scratch take your bottom
case thank you all right put your case
foam down running the ribbon cables
through it so that goes through here
here you can just run that through and
plug it in the ergonomics of this well
these aren't really ribbon cables but
these tiny connectors are honestly my
scariest part they're weak and they're
hard to pull out and if you're using a
tool to pull them out you can scrape the
PCB which you don't want to do um cool
but yeah that was easy enough then we
throw this guy on normally if you're
also not comfortable with doing this
most keyboard companies are going to
have a kind of a tutorial or guide and
if the company doesn't then there's so
many YouTubers and personalities out
there that they're probably you're going
to be able to find an assembly guide
pretty easy for step-by-step
instructions next layer we want to put
our nice poron foam in here poron poron
my dad used to call me that was a kid
poron y on and then after that we'll put
our plate on okay and then let's put
four into the corners oh God I don't
know man so you're putting it in at an
angle if you put it in just like
straight down you have the easy side
okay we can switch turn it flip it
around switches on this table I'm just
going to jiggle jiggle and press it's
okay yeah let me do it yeah yeah you do
did you bend that one uh slightly you're
getting it bent it's okay if you ever
bend a pin just flatten it out with some
pliers no problem oh yeah that one
doesn't go in very easily Vindicated
he's right he's right oh come on mine
went in so easy here we go does this
puppy come with switches or they totally
sold separately or how's it work uh yeah
they come with switches they're hot
swappable though so if you want a
different switch easy look at that well
that was easy yeah no problem and then
do they have switch options depending on
the color you choose you're going to get
a different switch and then since these
are hot swappable we're just popping
these in we're not having to solder
anything you can just get different
switches down the line take them all out
put the new ones in you're good to go
Bob's your uncle that's it see how easy
they go in now that it's all aligned
though that's why I always do the
corners first this is like a like the
game of Go like I can grab I can grab
some territory over here you're not
allowed to left of these switches once
you start putting them in though it's
pretty easy though right like now you're
putting these in no problem no problem
also uh some of these foam layers when
you're fully assembling it for the first
time they're a little sticky so you can
like kind of get it in place and it'll
stick in place and you don't have to
worry about sliding the layer all around
what kind of switches do you like you
like tactile or clicky really I'm more
of a typist than
a than a a wasy guy I kind of go all
over the place sometimes I like linear
um and sometimes I like tactile but I
don't like clicky and I want to hear my
keyboard I don't want to hear my
switches if that makes no it doesn't
what I don't get it I guess what I'm
trying to do that I never explained is
I'm trying to lead with the two pins
that are going to go in so I do put it
in ever so slightly angled up with a
little bit of a roll yeah with a little
bit of a roll yeah now you got it when
did the power come on here when probably
just hit a button these are south facing
RGB the cool thing about those is that
this is a side Legend So it's going to
light up on the side I'm leaving this a
space bar to you oh yeah it looks like
the space bar is upside down which one
thing we didn't really talk about is
stabilizers these were already mounted
into the stabilizers being on this large
Space Bar Key these little white guys
over here yeah cuz if there were no
stabilizers to keep the whole Long Key
stable exactly it would wobble so when
people are lubing up their switches
that's that's like on the spring on the
switch itself that's right like inside
here that's right so we don't have a
switch opener here but what you normally
do is you pop open these four tabs on
the side um and then this top housing
comes off and you take the spring off
and then what you Lube is the inside of
it as well as the stem so this guy here
and your Springs as well it's nice to
lube those otherwise and that's purely
for the sound they do feel a little
nicer as well like I find that switches
that are unlubed feel more scratchy yeah
but the thing is in the last couple
years Factory lubing like these Feel
Factory lubed and it's gotten a lot
better okay to the point where like I
don't even buy unlubed switches anymore
I just buy lubed Factory Lube switches
and I just run them sounds tus process
what is the typical effect soundwise of
looping them uh sounds a little deeper
and a little less scratchy typically
yeah let's get that top on oh yeah
beautiful just like okay here we go yeah
there you go then that's that then we
got those four bolts oh yeah bolts
that's good I was like is this just
gravity like yeah some are
magnetic
yeah wow all right now let's get the key
caps on it's all we got to
do all right we're done there they are
both keyboards fully assembled you got
purple though I did I like purple is
there any other difference looks like
you have more keys than I do yeah so the
main difference here is that this one's
a 75% and this one's a 65% you've got
the F Keys I've got the F keys I like
that little known trick F4 in Excel or
Google Sheets is repeat last action
that's pretty good it's really good
you're like delete this row and you just
want to do that a bunch more times oh
that's that's a really good one actually
you can do all of that you're not
limited if you hit the function key I
hate using layers though I know me too
so if but if you hit the function key
you can go function alt 4 and that's alt
f4
essentially or function alter beside
each other yeah yeah so you can do them
over there and there like it's not the
worst um this is nice yeah the knob it's
good to is is that knob larger let's
compare knobs this my knob is larger
larger diameter knob other than that
they're basically the same they both
have qmk via compatibility which is a
huge upgrade for emaker most of their
other keyboards are using proprietary
software if you don't like layers you'll
probably never use qmk via but if you do
like layers and macros then with qmk via
you can set up whatever you want you can
assign Keys you can change the RGB you
can do tons of stuff and most other big
Boutique keyboards use qmk just cuz I
don't like layers doesn't mean I
wouldn't use that to program this the
way I want maybe I want to move a couple
Keys around fair enough you have a
gradient I do so I've got a nice
anodized purple coating very pretty very
pretty what do I have you have an electr
foric coating and look at this mirror
finish in the bottom that's pretty wait
wait hi wow there it is good weight on
these guys yeah they're full aluminum
shell full aluminum chassis which is not
always the case for eil maker they use a
lot of plastics it does help keep the
cost down we'll get to the price at the
very end they're the same
switches and then they've also got the
same 4,000 milliamp battery which is a
lot if you have the RGB on it's not
going to last nearly as long they've
also both got south facing RGB so you
get that cool shine through on the
legend oh yeah looks pretty cool it does
see the tea is blinking for some reason
you can they're basically the same so
now the only thing left to do is this a
little home for the USB dongle deliver
that is so nice to have thank you my
only complaint is uh the same as a lot
of aluminum CK uh keyboards is that
there's no adjustable feet oh cuz so if
you don't like this typing angle you're
kind of just hooped it's more ergonomic
to have it flat than I know up there so
you should anyway it's fine but I like
up a little bit which which one are you
going to take if I'm going to have at my
desk I would take the extra keys and I
also like purple so fair enough that's
perfect what the heck I have page up and
down and I have end but I don't have
home oh yeah you are missing a home key
you might also be missing a delete oo
yeah I use home and and a lot and I use
delete a lot I use delete all the time
Mac people don't even know what that is
no they're fools it's like backspace but
it goes the other way so good actually
have that on my thumb on my oh that's
genius that's why I like the I like the
thumb clusters now with all this being
done and said would you switch from ergo
to a straight just regular cuz you can
get mechanical ergonomic keyboards yeah
uh mine's Optical so happens to be but
um no at my desk I think I put enough
hours in it that I want to be an ergo
keyboard but at home I actually have a
lesser mechanical keyboard and I it's
pretty old and cheesy at this point with
his RGB and stuff and I would love to
replace that with something like one of
these especially when you have those
like
Curly nice coiled cables those cables
are cool you could take your keyboard at
home and mod it a bit yourself we have
our own uh keyboard diet on LT it has a
plastic chass rather I'd rather get a
kit like this that's all exploded out
and spend quality time with a family
member like my little sister or
something building it together it's
great for stuff like that good gift idea
that way yeah cuz I mean as you saw like
that was pretty simple yeah there's not
that much to it I think people get a
little worried when they're taking any
kind of electronics apart especially
when it's more expensive um but like
that was such a simple kit it's just a
bunch of foam layers you plug the PCB in
in a couple spots and then you put put
the switches in and you're basically
done boom easy and we're basically done
that's right except for the price oh
it's 120 for the 65 and $140 for the 75
bro you're not even in the realm of Ergo
keyboards yet I know I'm well aware
that's actually pretty reasonable
normally I I was actually expecting $350
$400 so sweet a few years ago that would
probably be the case for something like
this but the prices have come so far
down on full aluminum uh Wireless full
mechanical hot swap keybard RGB that you
can get them for a little over 100 bucks
now you can get cheaper ones um but
something like this is pretty reasonable
thanks supermaker for sponsoring this
video if you want to check out these
keyboards they'll be linked in the
description below and thank you guys for
watching if you want to look out another
video maybe check out the dino tab
75x you
know that's Tusk and Raiders baby Star
Wars no relation